## Turkey Hunting

If you know me or have known me in the past, I am sure a question that will come up is simply, Why? Why turkeys, and why now? You might be somewhat surprised to hear that this is something that I have taken up. I had been deer hunting a few times growing up and honestly was not taken by it. The combination of freezing Western NY winter temperatures, not getting anything to show for it, and my limited attention span didn’t really enthrall me with the sport. 

However, I can tell you my reasons for getting involved today. The main reasons are food-related, but I also have personal reasons as well. If you are against the eating of meat, I don’t expect this to resonate with you at first, but it might be interesting for you to at least consider the following. 

Prior to the season, I had never killed my own food before, and I felt that it will be an important experience for me. We (myself included obviously) have a terrible tendency to waste food. For me at least, in the same way that growing your own food makes you take pride in it and want to avoid waste, I believe this will have the same effect because I worked hard to get that animal and want to respect it. A second note is that hunted game meat takes away business from the factory farming industrial complex. If we are to move away from that industry model, we would need to start putting our food dollars elsewhere. I enjoy eating meat and have no plans of going vegetarian or vegan. With that in mind, I would rather eat an animal that lived a natural life and hand processed by myself, than one that spent it in a dark warehouse. A similar reason is that I believe hunting gives you a stake in the game of conservation and sustainability. If a portion of your food or even enjoyment comes from the natural environment, you now have incentive to protect that environment and habitat. And as a bonus, there is a feeling I get when I’m out in the woods scouting for evidence of birds, that I am doing what I was biologically designed to do. I’m not sure if anyone has coined this term, but I’d like to offer up “spiritual resonance” as a description of this feeling. If you work an indoor job, this can make a great difference for your overall mental state.

So in short, I don’t want to live in a future where you live in a pod and eat bugs, as the meme goes. Again, maybe that will work for the high brow society-participator, but it’s not going to work for me. Turkey hunting is a fun, engaging, and healthy way to become introduced to hunting and build outdoors skills. As hunting rates fall across the country, there are now a lot of free resources out there to help you get started, even if you have never been hunting before. I hope you’ll take it into consideration as a potential skill you may want to develop for yourself.


## Why I Hunt


### Personal enjoyment/actualization/realization… whatever you want to call it. 

Folks talk a lot nowadays about how our bodies and minds are not designed for the modern world. I think that while this has been in the public discourse for a while now, a lot of this energy is directed into the very modern activity of selling you something. Self help books by “Evolutionary psychologists,” Paleo diet, you name it. However, at its core, I believe the general thesis to be correct. Have you ever had the feeling that you are doing what you are born to do? Maybe if your job dynamic lines up exactly with your personality, you get this feeling every day. The type of people I have seen that appear (keyword: appear) to exemplify that are sales-type people or master craftspeople, and maybe some professors who are really into their research. For me, I enjoy my job and it sustains me, and at many times it is interesting and engaging. It’s not a place where I feel a special connection with myself or the universe. Maybe this is where I hear a 90’s sitcom dad voice saying “that’s because it’s a JOB.. maybe if people your age would work harder...” OK Richard, if coasting through your union 9-3 with 10 smoke breaks and retiring at 55 with full pension benefits, but reminding everyone how “hard” you had it gives you deep meaning in your life, power to you brother. But when I am out in the land and the trees, it’s a completely different feeling for me. I’m not stressed. There’s no deadlines. I’m not looking at a screen. If this was my primary method of sustaining myself, I might feel differently. But it’s not and probably never will be. Anyways, as I said before, I call this feeling “spiritual resonance”. This is where, in this moment, you are doing what you are designed to do and can feel it. Your physiological wants and needs are in alignment, you are acting in accordance with your values and instincts, and a lifetime of cognitive dissonance melts away. 


### A Personal Journey

In addition to that feeling, I was also looking for some type of personal journey of self discovery and improvement. I squandered a few opportunities to travel while I was still in college, and the ones I took were more of a vacation than experience. I was looking for something that involved both physical and mental challenges, ideally out in the natural world, and ideally alone, so that I could claim it as my own. If I happened to meet others through this journey, that would be great too. Something that met this criteria was hiking the Appalachian Trail. It’s a 6+ month journey through the backwoods of the Eastern US that I had researched and virtually spoken with someone who had recently completed it. Unfortunately, that just wasn’t going to be feasible for my situation right now. Maybe sometime in the future. So that wasn’t going to work out for me, but I found that turkey hunting could be a suitable alternative. You are out interacting with nature, alone or with a friend, and are learning a lot about yourself and the world, for one month of the year (two if you’re lucky enough to live in a state with a fall season). Part of what brought this to mind as an option was recalling one of my friend’s college term papers for Intro to English. I can’t honestly remember the words he used, but I did remember that he conveyed a very powerful experience. At the time, I thought “that’s cool, but it’s not for me.” Today, I understand and identify with that experience much better. 

### Food Quality/Ecological Concerns

It’s also widely discussed today how much of our mass-produced food is not good for us, and it’s not good for the environment. And after recent events, it at least appears that it is not totally within our country’s control either. I have been learning about small-scale food planting, though I am no agriculture expert. But this sentiment stands as reasoning for both my interest in hunting and growing my own food. It seems to me that if we were to go back to early 20th century farming methods, the era of cheap food would almost certainly be over. Efficiency gains through mechanization appear to have been dwarfed by the use of pesticides, industrially produced fertilizer, genetic engineering, and industrial meat raising and processing. Coca Cola is $0.99 for a 2L bottle at the gas station, and yet bottled water is somehow more expensive. Organic eggs are almost twice the price of “regular” eggs at the store. And of course many of us have seen the Food, Inc. style of documentaries. I’m not saying everything needs to be organic, but it gives you an idea of the true cost of real food. That’s simply how much food costs in a non-industrial, factory farmed world. And if you have ever tried to grow your own food, you probably found out “Sh*t, this isn’t as easy as putting some seeds in the ground and walking away. This is hard.” Uncontrollable weather, pests, disease: these are all things which your tools to mitigate become very limited when doing it yourself without industrial techniques. So, why bother? Monsanto & Co. are almost infinitely more efficient at producing food and ag products than you. And I have spent a rather large amount of money on hunting this season, although much of it was upfront costs that you pay once. It makes no market sense for you to grow, raise, or hunt yourself or even buy DIY food. Of course, there’s the ‘it’s better for you’ argument, and in many cases, it is. In my mind, it’s a good skill to have: it’s enjoyable, and the current market environment may not always be that way. Over the past two years, we have seen supply chains sputter, and lead times for simple goods have increased by previously ridiculous amounts. I don’t have 10 years of dehydrated food stocked away in the basement, but all I’m saying is that it may reach a point in the future where growing and harvesting your own food does make economic sense. 


### Authenticity

Another reason hunting appeals to me is the authenticity. Throughout my life, one thing I have consistently craved is authenticity. So much of our lived experience today is manufactured. The latest Marvel superhero blockbuster, Fortnite and Elden Ring, even your Google searches show you content based on an algorithm, written to influence you in one way or another. All of these mediums are at the very least trying to sell you something, if not worse, make you think something. There’s nothing wrong with enjoying entertainment. Storytelling and listening is a core part of culture and the human experience. But it is undeniable that consuming inorganic media content changes us, and when it is produced by the current political and corporate machine (US, China, Europe… doesn’t matter), we are not being changed in the same way that people in the past were. Our identities and behaviors are being modified in an industrial manner. You can’t buy an authentic hunting experience by smashing the like and subscribe buttons. You don’t need to purchase Disney+ or an HBO add-on. A turkey gobbling in the woods isn’t trying to convince you to vote a certain way or sell you anything. There is certainly an industry and political machine built up around hunting equipment and the larger outdoors experience. But the act itself is one that is purely your own, shared between you and the natural environment, sans political or corporate middleman.  






## Making a Kill: How did it feel, and what was learned

Let me start off by saying that I am someone with a great compassion for nature and living things. I know that might sound disingenuous at first glance, but hear me out. I will get into my personal ethical outlook later. Anyways, I wasn’t sure what to expect when I shot my first turkey. Physically, it was a dead nuts headshot with a #9 TSS shell at 20 yards. He didn’t know what hit him, and went down instantly with barely a flap. Making an ethical shot is important to me. In my mind, part of respecting the bird is to only take an informed shot within the shooter’s range and ability level. In that regard, I succeeded with that bird. In the build up to that moment, I had found what I had been looking for on the journey of turkey hunting, as I do with each gobbler encounter, kill or not. I felt alive in a way that I had not felt before the season, probably since high school sports. The anticipation and raw energy, while feeling your blood pumping through your body lets you know that you are a living, feeling organism on planet Earth. At the same time, you came to this point for a reason. All the hours and dollars of preparation have led up to this. You dial in your focus, and when the opportunity presents itself, you take the shot. 

After that bird went down, I set my gun down and then instantly shot up and let out the biggest yell I had in years. It echoed across all the neighboring hollers from the top of the ridge we were on. Not the best strategic move there but I wasn’t thinking about that at that point. I high fived my friend and ran down to the bird. It was still warm, which logically was not a surprise to me, but the warmth reinforced the realization that moments before, this was a living being, and I had just taken its life. It is a bittersweet feeling that your success was the turkey’s downfall. We went to take some photos. In the past, I had thought that hunting photos with the dead game animal were crass and distasteful. However, before the season I had heard another point of view that changed my perspective: you should take the photo as a way of honoring the animal. You have just taken its life, so you should celebrate that life as that of a respected and worthy adversary. It lived a hard but natural life: foraging for food, evading predators, searching for a mate, and hopefully succeeding on several occasions. A full life; one that deserves recognition. 

Him and his compatriots have given their all to evade you during the season, and you have given your all in your pursuit (if done ethically). That is something that is worth paying respect to, so in my photos at least, the purpose is to honor the bird and raise awareness of the personal and conservation benefits of this pursuit. 

So we took the photos and then I lifted up the gobbler to carry it the 3/4 mile back to the truck. That doesn’t sound far, but with gun, gear, and bird, traversing mountainous terrain is plenty difficult. Unfortunately at the time I went to pick him up, we discovered that he had previous wounds, infected and festering with gangrene. Rifles are legal to use in West Virginia, and it looked like someone had grazed him with a bullet and blown a chunk off of the breast, rendering the meat inedible. This was almost crushing to me, because food was such a big part of why I had started hunting in the first place. I hope that I was able to ease his suffering, because it was a significant wound and it was amazing he had made it that far after sustaining such an injury. Although maybe it does explain his willingness to come into our calls and continue up to the top of the ridge when there was clearly no hen around: if you’re living on borrowed time in the natural world, you better get to spreading your genes quickly. 

When we got back to the house, I wanted to be the one to gut the bird. While I wouldn’t describe this as a pleasant activity, I would have felt cowardly and wasteful to kill this turkey and not be the one to do the entire job of processing. Later, after I returned home, I did the work to prepare for a cape mount. 

Something that struck me deeply, was that when processing a game animal, you realize that you are both made of the same stuff. Flesh, bone, blood, and dust. Just as he comes apart, so do you. It puts the fickleness of life into perspective. If you don’t keep your wits about you in nature, you could end up the same. It’s a reminder to respect all life, yours and others’, because we aren’t here forever. As the biblical saying goes, it is from dust that we come and to dust that we will return. While we are here, I intend to use my time to the fullest, and hunting has only strengthened that sentiment. 


## Selected Field Notes/Daily Logs

### April 12, 2022.

Arrival 05:10. Holly Shelter Game Land Wildlife Preserve. Holly Ridge, North Carolina. 

Attempted to set up off North end swamp off Hines Kiln Rd. GPS couldn't seem to place my location. Finally set up in non-ideal location. Forgot Thermacell, heavy mosquito swarms. Hen clucked for one sequence, then nothing. Departed 8:00AM. Bumped hen on return journey. Was hiding in the brush/ditch on side of the road. 

Returned 17:45, Bannerman Rd. Took a right at fork, no entry point available. Returned to main road then found an entry point into the swamp. Deer tracks, bear scat present. Sweetgum nuts on the ground. No signs of birds. Spooked duck on way in and a heron on the way out while walking down the road. Maybe the only good time to enter this location is in the morning?

While driving home on Shaw Rd., there was a hen standing about 10 yds off from the ditch, just over the south game lands border onto private.

### April 13, 2022. 

Arrival 11:25. Holly Shelter Game Land Wildlife Preserve, Western tract. Holly Ridge, North Carolina.

Investigated pine stand on the first left after the shooting range, near location of hen seen previous evening. Pines give way to hardwoods and creek/property line. Peeled off to hit small pine ridge mixed with hardwoods near property line and creek. Nothing, moved on until hitting gravel road. Saw unidentifiable turkey heading into the woods at a brisk walking pace while coming around the bend. Lots of tracks, including beard trail in the sand. 

### April 14, 2022. 

Arrival 07:15. Sawpit Landing Boat Access, Northeast Cape Fear River. Burgaw, North Carolina. 

Put kayak in and paddled downriver toward Ashes Creek. Some way before reaching it, heard a gobble on West bank of the River. Landed and disembarked with equipment on the bank. Set up on edge of interior swamp area, with back to an oak tree. Somewhat exposed, but not much cover available. Lightly called with yelp sequence on box call. Gobbler responds about 5 minutes later. Over next 20 minutes, lightly yelp once more. Tom gobbles 2-3 more times en route to my location. Emerged cautiously from brush across edge of the swamp water. Stopped short ~50 yds. Surveys the area for about 10 minutes while keeping in the shadows. Cannot get positive ID on a beard/coloring, too dark and too far. Cannot raise shotgun as I am exposed and in direct sight line. Bird departs, then wait 15 minutes and head back to the boat. Paddled 1/4 mile downriver and put back in on the West bank. Set up below old treestand with good cover, no action. Later realized this is where bird had previously come from earlier. Moved inland, set up on edge of a glade with more vegetation cover, thigh high brush. After clucks and purrs on the box call, gobbler approaches once again, this time silently. Appears brifely rustling through brush. Use binoculars after his head surfaces again, positive ID on head coloration for a Tom. Went into brush on my left, but did not reappear on the other side. Made my way upstream to flank from oppostie side of swamp, arrive 3:00PM. Set up behind downed tree. Nothing, move further inland, no further action. Depart approximately 7:00PM after several wrong turns on exit journey. 

### April 17, 2022.

Arrival 08:00. Bellhammon Game Lands, Northeast Cape Fear River. Castle Hayne, North Carolina. 

Portage kayak 3/4 mile from gate to River along trail. Paddle upriver towards the Northerm shore of Turkey Creek, approximately 6 miles one way. Encounter multiple boaters while heading north. Most are considerate, except for Bass fisherman in johnboat about 1 mile upriver. Hooting and hollering, sauced up at 09:00 and scaring all fish and wildlife in the area. At approximately mile 5 near Duke power line crossing, first alligator sighting. Small juvenile that quickly darts away. Reach mouth of Turkey Creek, several more juvenile alligator sightings. All retreat upon contact. North shoreline consists of thick mangrove trees with no good landing point. Paddle up a small tributary, multiple wood duck sightings, however no viable entry point. Return to Turkey Creek and proceed upriver. Encounter large alligator on Southern bank, approximately 6ft in length. Gator enters water to intecept my path. Turn boat around and return downriver. 


### April 22, 2022. 

Arrival 06:00. Private property. Upshur County, West Virgina. 

Make way to top of ridge and set up against trees. Hear one hen yelping, then goes silent. Continue along ridge, past cemetery. After settling in, start on the box call with soft clucks. Hear one gobble, then more, each becoming farther away. Possibly multiple birds. We move up but birds seem to keep a constant distance from us, one seems to be around the bend of the highest point. We move around back side to cut him off. Later, he gobbles close. His head appears just above the edge of the ridge to survey the area, then retreats. Employ occasional soft calling on the box. Nothing for awhile. A hawk slowly glides above, and screeches twice. About to move, and suddenly hear another gobble on our side of the ridge, very close. The Tom comes into view and begins slowly ascending up the incline towards us. Starts to turn away from my shooting zone, but changes his mind and continues on. Bird cautiously continues climbing up the ridge until coming within 20 yards of my setup. He pauses for a moment, and I take the shot. Direct headshot, goes down immediately.

Approximately 2 year old bird, 10" beard and 7/8" spurs, taken with 12ga 3" TSS #9 load. After noticing unusually pungent smell of bird, flipped it over and noted previous injuries infected with gangrene, probable gunshot wound from rifle to the breast, or possible coyote attack. Otherwise, a fine bird. Feathers in generally good condition.  




